Extensive editing of error-handling (#1318)
ocaml/v3.ocaml.org: data/tutorials/lg_08_error_handling.md

In OCaml, errors can be handled in several ways. This document presents most of
the available means. However, handling errors using the effect handlers

> introduced in OCaml 5 isn't addressed yet. This topic is also addressed in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
introduced in OCaml 5 hasn't been addressed yet. This topic is also addressed in the
```

>
> On error, -1 is returned, and `errno` is set to indicate the error.

> Great software was written using this style. However, since correct and error

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Great software was written using this style. However, since the expected and error
```

Reviewer: Is it "...since the expected error messages can't be distinguished" ?

Or do you mean ... the expected messages including error messages?

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like: “The values which are expected can't be distinguished from the values which represent errors”

> values can't be distinguished, nothing but the programmer's discipline ensures

Reviewer: "However, since correct and error values can't be distinguished"
This "correct" part I find a little confusing. Do you mean the style is correct but at the same time error values can't be distinguished?

If so, perhaps: "However, since this style is correct and error values can't be distinguished..."

> Great software was written using this style. However, since correct and error
> values can't be distinguished, nothing but the programmer's discipline ensures

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Great software was written using this style. However, as expected return values can't be distinguished from values representing errors, nothing but the programmer's discipline ensures
```

### Using `Fun.protect`

Because handling exceptions interrupts normal control flow, using them can
complicate some tasks requiring strictly ordered and coupled processes. For
these scenarios, the `Fun` module of the standard library provides:
```ocaml
val protect : finally:(unit -> unit) -> (unit -> 'a) -> 'a
```
This function is meant to be used when something _always_ needs to be done
_after_ a computation is complete, whether it succeeds or fails. The unlabeled

> function argument is called first, then the function passed as the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
function argument is called first, then the function passed as the
```

[labeled argument](/docs/labels) `finally` is called. `protect` then returns the

> same value as the unlabeled argument, or raises the same exception that that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
same value as the unlabeled argument or raises the same exception that
```
While using "that" twice in this sentence is also correct, I think it's not necessarily needed here. Author's choice, but the comma should be removed.

function raised.

Note that functions passed to `protect` take only `()` as a parameter. This

> does not limit the cases where `protect` can be used; any computation `f x` can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
does not limit the cases where `protect` can be used. Any computation `f x` can
```

be wrapped in a function `fun () -> f x`. As always, the body of the function
won't be evaluated until the function is called.

The `finally` function is only expected to perform some side-effect, and should

> not raise any exception itself. If `finally` does throw some exception `e`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
not raise any exception itself. If `finally` does throw an exception `e`,
```

> not raise any exception itself. If `finally` does throw some exception `e`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not raise any exception itself. If `finally` does throw some exception `e`,
```
Should this be "throw the exception `e`" or "an exception `e`"? 
"Some" is usually used with a plural noun.

Author: "some one" and "some thing" are so commonplace they have turned into words. "an exception" loses the connotation that this is contrary to expectation. I would stand by "some exception" but "an exception" means almost exactly the same.

  let ic = open_in filename in
  let finally () = close_in ic in
  let work () = head_channel ic n in
  Fun.protect ~finally work;;
val head_file : string -> int -> string list = <fun>
```
When `head_file` is called, it opens a file descriptor, defines `finally` and
`work`, then `Fun.protect ~finally work` performs two computations in order:
`work ()` and then `finally ()`, and has the same result as `work ()`, either
returning a value or raising an exception. Either way, the file descriptor is
closed after use.

### Asynchronous Exceptions

Some exceptions don't arise because something attempted by the program failed,
but rather because an external factor is impeding its execution. Those 
exceptions are called asynchronous. These include:

* `Out_of_memory`
* `Stack_overflow`
* `Sys.Break`

The latter is thrown when the user interrupts an interactive execution. Because
they are loosely or not at all related with the program logic, it mostly doesn't
make sense to track the place where an asynchronous exceptions was thrown, as it
could be anywhere. Deciding if an application needs to catch those exceptions
and how it should be done is beyond the scope of this tutorial. Interested

> readers may refer to Guillaume Munch-Maccagnoni [A Guide to recover from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
readers may refer to Guillaume Munch-Maccagnoni's [A Guide to recover from
```

val host : string -> string = <fun>
```
This may fail by raising `Not_found` if the first the call to `String.index`
does, which could happen if there is no `@` character in the input string,
signifying that it's not an email address. However, if the second call to
`String.index` fails, meaning no dot character was found, we may return the
whole fully qualified domain name (FQDN) as a fallback, but only if it isn't
the empty string.

Note that generally `String.sub` may throw `Invalid_argument`. Fortunately, this

> can't happen when calculating `fqdn`: in the worst case, the `@` character is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can't happen when calculating `fqdn`. In the worst case, the `@` character is
```

* Line 6: if nothing was found earlier, and if isn't empty, `fqdn` is returned
  as a fallback

When used to handling errors with catch statements, it requires some time to get
used the latter style. The key idea is avoiding or deferring looking directly
into option values. Instead, pass them along using ad hoc pipes (such as `map`

> and `bind`). Erik Meijer calls that style “following the happy path”. Visually,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and `bind`). Erik Meijer calls that style “following the happy path.” Visually,
```

it also resembles the “early return“ pattern often found in C.

> One of the limitations of the option type is it doesn't record the reason which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the limitations of the option type is that it doesn't record the reason that
```

prevented having a return value. `None` is silent, it doesn't say anything about
what went wrong. For this reason, functions returning option values should
document the circumstances under which they may return `None`. Such
documentation is likely to resemble that required for exceptions using `@raise`.
The **`result`** type, described in the next section, is intended to fill this

> gap: manage errors in data like option values, but also provide information on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gap: manage errors in data like option values and provide information on
```
Keep "but also" if the second part wouldn't normally be expected to follow

The same reasoning applies to `Result.bind`, except there's no `bind_error`.
Using those functions, here is an hypothetical example of code using [Anil

> Madhavapeddy's OCaml Yaml library](https://github.com/avsm/ocaml-yaml):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Madhavapeddy's OCaml YAML library](https://github.com/avsm/ocaml-yaml):
```

- `File.read_opt` is supposed to open a file, read its contents and return it as
a string wrapped in an option, if anything goes wrong `None` is returned.
- `Yaml.of_string` parses a string and turns it into an ad hoc OCaml type
- `Yaml.find` recursively searches for a key in a Yaml tree. If found, it returns
  the corresponding data, wrapped in an option
- `Option.to_result` performs conversion of an **`option`** into a **`result`**.
- Finally, `let*` stands for `Result.bind`.

> Since both functions from the `Yaml` module return **`result`** data, it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since both functions from the `Yaml` module return **`result`** data, it is
```
Unless the actual command is capitalized like `Yaml`, I suggest keeping it all lower case `yaml` (or exactly how it appears in the command). If it's not a command, then it needs to be all capitalized like YAML. Basically match the formatting they use here: https://yaml.org/

Reviewer 2: Good point. Actually, it's above that we need to write YAML. Here, it's a module name, it has to stay like that.

Reviewer: Okay, cool. I figured it was a different format since it was a module, but should it then be `yaml` or `Yaml`?

Reviewer 2: That's super tricky. 
- Technology Name: YAML
- OCaml module name : Yaml
- Opam package name: yaml

easier to write a pipe which processes that type all along. That's why
`Option.to_result` needs to be used. Stages which produce **`result`** must be

> chained using `bind`, stages which do not must be chained using some map

Reviewer: ```suggestion
chained using `bind`; stages which do not must be chained using some map
```

a >>= fun x -> b >>= fun y -> c
```
Variables `x` and `y` may appear in `c` in the three cases. The first form isn't

> very convenient, it uses a lot of parentheses. The second one is often the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
very convenient, as it uses a lot of parentheses. The second one is often the
```
...or "and it uses..." ?

> very convenient, as it uses a lot of parentheses. The second one is often the

Author: ```suggestion
very convenient, as it uses a lot of parentheses. The second one is often
```
The change to the next line makes the final "the" incorrect

> preferred one due to its resemblance with regular local definitions. The third

Reviewer: ```suggestion
preferred due to its resemblance with regular local definitions. The third
```

g y
```
Writing `x >>= f` is very close to what is found in functionally tainted
programming languages which have methods and receivers such as Kotlin, Scala,

> Go, Rust, Swift or even modern Java, where it would look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go, Rust, Swift, or even modern Java, where it would look like:
```

|> Result.map_error (Printf.sprintf "%s, error: %s: " path)
```

By the way, this style is called [tacit
programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tacit_programming). Thanks to the

> associativity priorities of the `>>=` and `|>` operators, no parenthesized

Reviewer: ```suggestion
associativity priorities of the `>>=` and `|>` operators, no parenthesised
```

expression extends beyond a single line.

OCaml has a strict typing discipline, not a strict styling discipline;
therefore, picking the right style is left to the author's decision. That

> applies error handling, pick a style knowingly. See the [OCaml Programming

Reviewer: ```suggestion
applies error handling, so pick a style knowingly. See the [OCaml Programming
```
Or if not "so," make it a separate sentence: Pick a style knowingly.

Writing `assert false` would just stop your program. This idiom is sometimes
used to indicate [dead code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dead_code), parts of

> the program that must be written (often for type-checking or pattern matching

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the program that must be written (often for type-checking or pattern-matching
```

completeness) but are unreachable at run time.

Asserts should be understood as executable comments. They aren't supposed to
fail, unless during debugging or truly extraordinary circumstances that
absolutely prevent the execution from making any kind of progress.

When the execution reaches conditions which can't be handled, the right thing to

> do is to throw a `Failure`, using `failwith "error message"`. Assertions aren't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
do is to throw a `Failure` by using the `failwith "error message"`. Assertions aren't
```

> do is to throw a `Failure`, using `failwith "error message"`. Assertions aren't

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
do is to throw a `Failure`, by calling `failwith "error message"`. Assertions aren't
```

exceptional events, all with good runtime performance and code
understandability. Using them properly requires some initial learning and

> practice. Later, it always requires some thinking, which is good since proper

Reviewer: ```suggestion
practice. Later, it always requires some thinking, which is beneficial because proper
```

> error management shouldn't ever be overlooked. No error handling mechanism is
> always better than the others, and choosing one to use should be matter of
> fitting the context rather than of taste. But opinionated OCaml code is also
> fine, so it's a balance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
error management shouldn't ever be overlooked. No error handling mechanism is
always better than the others, and choosing one to use should be a matter of
fitting the context rather than that of taste. But opinionated OCaml code is also
fine, so it's a balance.
```
